right right you started off as a
deprived so you had no gear
so when you get because you're running
around in a loincloth at a club
I'm a slow-rolling deprived for
something yeah like if someone deserves
a break it's you buddy
so bulliest is that what I'm calling you
today buddy or Matt either one okay one
doesn't bother me so Matt thanks for
coming on thank thanks for coming on
stream man you're welcome I mean yeah
like I said earlier should Google won
hey thinking use them no worries so tell
us a little bit about what's going on
and and what's going on in your life and
how we can be helpful for you I mean
it's like a lot of things right I I'd
say like I kind of struggle with like
moving forward in life and having a
purpose and sort of like just knowing
what to do with myself okay motivation
definitely one big thing okay and so
when you say it's a lot of different
things that sounds to me kind of like
one thing what do you mean with that
well having so it sounds like you just
don't know what to do with yourself like
right that's why you don't have
motivation like you don't know what
you're what you don't know what you're
doing in life yeah okay yeah that's fair
enough yeah so why is it that we if if
you just don't know what's going on like
why do we come up with multiple answers
like how do you think that works say
that it again well okay let me ask you
this so the basic problem is that your
directionless in life right right but
when I asked you what's bringing you on
you say it's a lot of different stuff
right right right so let's just let's
just explore for a second why it is that
we feel like a lot of different things
are going wrong when there's just one
root problem um maybe sort of the
symptoms of that absolutely absolutely
so let me ask you something Matt do you
feel like you're overwhelmed I'd say so
I think I'm pretty overwhelmed with
everything yeah right so I want you to
just notice for a second that even
though there's one problem that the
feeling of being overwhelmed makes you
think that there are a thousand
different
like you see all of the symptoms and
that's exactly what feeling overwhelmed
does when we feel overwhelmed we take
one problem and we can see all of the
different things going on with it
and that overwhelms us and also
paralyzes us you're smiling
why are you smiling either I don't know
awkwardness or just okay realizing what
you're saying okay so how do you feel
right now
ank yes okay what what do you mean by
anxious um just being on streams like
share 50 people or whatever sort of
thing okay Wow there are 50 people
okay well we'll lose viewership soon
don't worry thanks for coming on and
being honest with us because I think
this helps a lot of people so thank you
for doing that yeah no worries so what
is it that feels overwhelming um it's
you're just trying to figure out cuz I
feel like there's so many options with
like what to do with my life and it's
also like I don't really know how to
find that or even figure out what I'm
doing or what I'm doing wrong or yeah
you know what I mean yeah so I'm here
what I'm hearing from you is that you
don't know where to start
I'd say yeah that's a pretty pretty
accurate yeah so so I think that the
challenge here is that I think Matt
you're a smart guy and so the problem
with being a smart guy is that you can
see many different options right like
you're you're a hypothetical analytical
capability you can say to yourself oh I
could do this or I could do this or I
could do this or I could do this but
then it's hard for you to figure out
which one to actually do right so what
do you what do you think it is that so
tell me what don't you like about your
life right now and only I feel
myself all the time I don't like feeling
like there's a lot of like chaos and
things that are I can't
I struggle they do like do the dishes or
clean my room and do my laundry like so
much stuff that regular people can just
you normally not feeling like I have a
purpose or goal definitely as well okay
how do you feel about yourself it's been
slowly getting better but I don't think
I a lot of time I just don't feel good
in general not kind of applies to myself
as well
looking like what just not liking who I
am or I've been I've been able to look
in the mirror and like lay like how I
look more recently but just like um
being beating myself up over mistakes
and stuff like that okay do you feel
like you're kind of a bad person at
times be like you're a waste of space no
I don't think I'm a waste of space but
okay yeah I mean I generally say I'm a
pretty decent person like I try not to
be a crappy person but I mean everyone
is good for you man so but everyone what
everyone has their moments right and
like everyone can mess up and do things
that aren't good right yeah and it
sounds like you've been practicing yet
forgiving yourself for those moments um
[Music]
yeah kind of I think so somewhat okay so
oddly enough I'm not hearing anything
that makes me think of so it sounds like
you have kind of a low estimation of
yourself right help me understand what
kind of thoughts you have I mean I can
be like very critical of myself over
things that are like dumb or like well
okay hold on so why do you think they're
dumb I think I don't know something
aren't important so do you see what
you're doing right there
you're being critical of the way that
you're critical of yourself because
you're calling them dumb great right you
see that it's a whole whole thing yeah
yeah it's like a whole meta level thing
yeah so what are you critical of
yourself about it's hard to think okay
okay so let me help you out so you
mentioned earlier that you struggled to
do a lot of things that normal people
can do right like what like yeah like do
my dishes and I was going to the gym for
a while but then I stopped I'm okay and
broke up and like doing recycling like
doing just like the general things like
showering every day and okay brush my
teeth like take care taking care of
yourself yeah or not taking care of
yourself right yeah and and is that
something that what so do you this is
gonna sound weird do you think that
that's a dumb thing to be mad at
yourself about or an appropriate thing
to be mad at yourself about no that's
that's appropriate okay so I want you to
just notice the critical nature of your
mind right it's like your mind has
actually like a mode of operation what
what game your gamer yeah what do you
play I was playing Dark Souls earlier I
also play a lot of like MMOs I grew up
on like Korean MMO is like maplestory
and stuff like that okay
okay so you know in Dark Souls we have
different loadouts right right so right
now your mind has equipped the self
critical loadout right and so it doesn't
matter like what you know it's like you
know so I would say the self critical
loadout is almost like slow rolling in
Dark Souls like it doesn't matter what
armor you're wearing if you're slow
rolling you're slow rolling so you can
try to change as many different things
as you want to about your equipment but
if you're if you're slow rolling it's
always gonna be slow lowering it's the
only thing that your mind knows how to
do right so you can be self-critical
like so the
first thing that I want you to do if if
you want to be free from your
self-critical thoughts there are a
couple of things that we're gonna work
on the first thing though is just to
notice what your mind is doing right
because this phone okay so a lot of
times like we operate based on what our
mind tells us to do but we don't really
question the operations of our mind it's
like if you wake up one day and you
decide like okay I don't feel like
showering you sort of fight a little war
with your mind but you never try to
understand like why is it that I am
don't want a shower you try to fight
your mind you don't try to understand it
right so the first thing that I want you
to do is just try to catch yourself when
you make a self critical thought and
we're gonna talk some more and I'm gonna
keep an eye out for it and I want twitch
chat to keep an eye out for it okay
okay I'm not actually watching twitch
chat but I don't know I mean anything
okay since we were saying don't was just
yeah don't watch twitch chat so alright
the first thing is just I want you to
notice the the self-critical mind and
notice how like your neurons have
basically locked into a pattern of self
judgment and the reason that this is a
problem like if you are judging yourself
and you're critical towards yourself
what do you think that does for your
motivation does not help okay so I want
you to now we're gonna expand that a
little bit do you think it motivates you
to do some things yeah
I'd see sometimes yeah yeah like what
don't blink
okay that's okay so so it's it's it's
it's good enough that I think you're
aware that maybe somewhere in there
there's some kind of motivation you're
just not able to figure out what it is
and so let me help you out so this is
what I want you to understand Matt when
you wake up to play video games like if
you play video games all day like what I
want you to think about for a moment and
appreciate is not it's not that you lack
motivation it's just that you're
motivated to play video games all day
like if you think about like if you're
if you're playing video games so much
that you're not like let's say showering
or brushing your teeth or taking out the
recycling that's actually a very high
degree of motivation you're so motivated
to play games that you're you're letting
all this other basic stuff like fall to
the side like imagine I was an artist
and I went into my studio and for three
days and three nights I shat in a bucket
I didn't brush my teeth and I didn't
shower and I produced this great work of
art we would call me highly motivated
right yeah but like so the first thing
is that for you to understand that you
actually have a lot of motivation it's
just not in the direction that you want
so this is where I think negative
emotions and negative feelings about
yourself are gonna motivate you to do
some things and mainly what they're
gonna motivate you towards us to be
avoidant right let's just say you
wouldn't yeah yeah right so give us some
examples help us understand that so for
example my I got in a car accident with
my with my ex like a pretty the end of
September okay and my parents didn't
know about it until like two-week nerds
like a weaker - yeah I think about a
week ago like last weekend sort of
things because I was just like so scared
of like how they would react that I just
didn't didn't tell them okay so let's
think of
that for a second so when you're afraid
of how they're going to react how can I
say this so that sounds like a
reasonable fear or your parents rough
with you sometimes I'd say so
okay can you tell us a little bit about
that um I know my brothers in here as
well so you can probably really sort of
but I think kind of my last brother yeah
my thoughts on it or I say my might I
saw my dad recently cuz he lives he
lives in the province over so like kind
of far and he can be very he can be very
like abrasive I guess he can be very
negative like hard to hard to get along
with cuz he's always like complaining
about stuff or I mean he's been better
like he's been more supportive but
that's like weird more recent uh-huh
sometimes I would like I would visit him
and I'd be like I don't want to be here
because just because of the way he acts
like it's hard to be around him for like
a long period of time how does it how
does that feel when you're around him it
just feels weird I mean and it like he
feels just awkward sort of thing I feel
like what feels weird about it
just I think my
relationship with him so it's like I
don't know how to how to act run him
like to dream like a friend really be
dad like okay it's just odd yeah it
sounds like you don't know what you're
supposed to do when you're with him
right like you don't know what to say or
you don't know how to actor yeah it's I
see it's generally kind of what it feels
like with family and I feel like when I
when I tried to be
I tried to be like honest sometimes it
can get me in trouble or can you help me
understand that so like I basically I
had a whole big argument with my parents
the other day over like I was kind of
talking about my mental health with my
mom and she didn't um she's like oh do
you think your your mental health
affects your motivation I was like yeah
she said where do you think that comes
from and I'm like well I think when you
guys got divorced those kind of the
whole catalyst for everything right or
the starting point because that's in my
mind that's where I think it was like
where it started from
and what do you mean by that what
started with what how old are you and
your parents got divorced probably 7 or
8 yeah look at seven six seventy tumor
in those three years and what do you
think it was that started I think like
just sort of like a downward spiral of
uh of me not feeling good about myself
and not doing like things I should be
doing like my homework or just kind of
yeah just not feeling good all the time
or not I'm doing like good about
anything or sort of just the depression
sort of thing I think okay when you say
the depression sort of things so it
sounds like you started to not do the
things that you were supposed to do it
sounds like you started to feel bad
about yourself I'd say so long it's hard
my memories kind of been messed up over
the over the years they used to be a lot
better
but so I don't really remember a lot of
it but I know that was like the starting
point what do you remember um I just
remember feeling like really alone in my
life
for a long time mm-hmm like it's
probably the biggest thing what is it
like to feel alone just I don't know
like there's nobody supports you or
nobody cares about you enough to like
wonder how you're feeling or or how
you're doing there mm-hmm and you did
your parents did your parents ever talk
to you about how the divorce was
affecting you not really I don't think
so
and you started feeling pretty alone
around the age of 7 or 8 mm-hmm yeah
that I feel sorry right go ahead oh I
was saying because um it was like that
and then moving a lot and having like a
new stepdad who wasn't the greatest I
know also with her stuff right so kind
of compounded I guess okay tell me about
moving well I moved from Alberta to to
to BC in probably I don't know how about
how long later like within a year of the
divorce so it was like I had I had lost
all my friends and hmm
was it hard to make new friends at the
at the
I went to it wasn't too bad but I moved
to and after that I moved to an area
that's like primarily East Indian people
so like people similar to your ethnicity
and because I'm like a white kid it was
harder to make friends right so that's
kind of part of it I think as well not
having as many friends wow that sounds
kind of rough cuz it sounds like you
actually made the first transition okay
made some friends and then it sounds
like your mom and stepdad up and moved
again yeah just when things were going
well for you yeah you're making an
adjustment and life kicks you when
you're when you're just about to get up
right intends to I find yeah for sure
that's definitely you cut you kind of
talk about a downward spiral I think
that'll do it yeah sorry man that sucks
that's okay it's in the past I guess I
think it's in the present yeah what I
well I mean yeah it's still if all that
stuff still affects me right so yeah I
think it's yeah isn't yeah I think it's
important to acknowledge that mm-hmm
because what does that say about you as
a person that it still affects me or
yeah because remember I mean somewhere
along the way we were talking about how
you're like not a it's not that you're
not a good person but that you can't you
know you're kind of [ __ ] up yeah
right that's the sentiment that I get
it's not that you're a bad person it's
just that you're kind of [ __ ] up
let's say so yeah and so what I'm kind
of curious about is like do you deserve
a little bit of slack I think so but I
mean when I try to be honest with like I
think he's so what I when I tried to be
honest with my parents about that like
they just got angry and thought I was
like blaming them for everything that
I'd done and stuff I was like kind of
understandable I mean I talked to about
it with my therapist a little okay and I
can understand why
got mad but it's like I don't know but I
just want them to kind of understand
that like everything had an effect on me
mm-hmm but I don't think that's probably
I don't think it's gonna happen so yeah
I think it can be rough it can be hard
for parents to understand that it can be
hard for one human being to understand
that my actions can affect you and that
that doesn't necessarily mean that it's
my fault but that at the same time it
can be hard for you right you know it
can be very hard for parents to not hear
blame when you kind of talk about
something like a divorce which may have
been the right move on some level still
like I mean some some things are gonna
be shitty and like that's just how it is
it doesn't mean that it's necessarily
their fault right so do you think you
deserve some slack I think so
but I mean yeah at the same time I feel
like I'm still pretty critical of myself
because of yeah right since there's the
slow roll right so so when we think a
little bit about what you've been
through like it's reasonable to think
that you know you're not just [ __ ] up
everything I mean I think you've been
dealt a kind of a rough hand right right
you started off as a deprived so you had
no gear it's when you get because you're
running around in a loincloth in a club
I'm a slow rolling deprived for saying
yeah like if someone deserves a break
it's you buddy
cuz you managed to slow roll in a
loincloth like that's not easy to do in
dark school so why don't you give
yourself a break cuz I feel like I could
be doing more to help myself
but I'm not I don't know how and what is
that that's the slow roll right see that
mm-hmm you're you're you're not doing
good enough you're [ __ ] it up
we could be helping yourself more Matt
why don't you help yourself more there
it is again so I mean I think the hard
thing is like you know these thoughts
that you have are kind of like a hedge
maze like everywhere you turn it's just
hedge hedge hedge
everywhere you turn it's like critical
critical critical right right it's hard
to get anywhere when you're slow rolling
just takes a long time yeah and so what
do we what do we do about that
I don't know okay how do you think if
you were your friend what would you do
[Music]
still don't know okay I'll just
Asya my situation I don't know it's just
weird to think about I don't know what I
would even do I probably help someone
but I don't know how I'd help them okay
so oddly enough Matt that's the first
fast roll you've done I want to point
out what you did right so like you said
like I don't know how I would help them
but I would I want to help they deserve
help I just don't know how that's not
self-critical that's actually like
acknowledgement you see that if not you
got to let me know I would even by its
acknowledgment so I think that you're in
a tough situation and you don't know how
to move forward but there's a big
difference between the slow roll which
is why don't you know how to move
forward Matt right and I don't know how
to move forward do you see the
difference between those two statements
yeah what's the difference once more
constructive in what way
it's not just me beating myself you
I think the other thing is it's an
acknowledgement of where you are because
all of your self-critical thoughts are
about where you should be
does that make sense yeah you should be
helping yourself more you should be
taking care of yourself better you
shouldn't let all this stuff from the
past affect you we can we can replace
all those self-critical thoughts with
the word shut there's actually a big
difference between I should be helping
myself more and I don't know how to help
myself even though that sounds like a
statement of ignorance I actually think
it's a statement of knowledge it's I
know that I don't know what to do right
that I actually think is incredibly
powerful that may not feel like it but I
think that's the first step for it and
sort of saying hey like I'm sort of
stuck here I'm not hearing any blame I'm
not I'm not hearing like why am I stuck
here like why did I end up in this place
why didn't I why couldn't I get out of
this place you're just kind of saying
like well here I am I don't really know
what to do here I have the slow rolling
deprived it's gonna be hard it's gonna
be hard to beat anything if I'm slow
rolling around with the you know with
the obese body type in Dark Souls can't
even begun dear yeah gun dears Hardman
yeah I died to him three times every
other class I've beaten in one try as
pontiff so gun dears in three right
there's the gun dieren wait yeah yeah
yeah but the way to beat gun deer is
just to hand your club and you don't
need to roll he's got a stun his ass
he's got he's got low fatigue right or
whatever that is guard brain or whatever
Pulis aminah yeah just go to town and
that's what you got a dude stop slow
rolling just go to town start picking up
the clover yes yeah yeah so what is
picking up the club for you what does
that mean doing something
that feels like I'm moving forward I
guess yeah
I would even stop but take a step back
from feels like you're moving forward
just do something move forward what does
that mean practically
um like yeah I just try to do something
that will lead to something better I
guess yeah what does that mean I don't
know what's something that you're not
doing right you've mentioned a couple of
concrete things right like what if you
meant sure like what like cleaning my
room okay what in your room needs to be
cleaned I need to do my laundry and
dishes and stuff laundry and dishes how
long does that take
there's a lot of laundry so let's take a
while but I think the dishes would take
me a maybe like a half hour and how long
how are you gonna do your laundry like
just put it in the washing machine and
then the dryer okay so we're gonna do a
little bit of meditation because I hear
people on stream want to do more
meditation okay okay so I want you to
close your eyes sit up straight
I want you to tell me how you feel right
now um I don't know kind of anxious a
little I think but okay anxious
generally okay what do you feel in your
body just like my hands I guess okay so
I just want you to take a snapshot of
how you feel right now
I want you to notice that there's some
anxiety but I would guess that there's a
certain heaviness which you've gotten
used to feeling mm-hmm right does that
make sense to you yeah I do so you kind
of feel heavy although other time I'd
say yeah okay so I want you to check
your incumbrance right now and just make
a mental note of what it is
okay okay that's what we're gonna do so
now I want you to open your eyes you
have dishes in your room yeah okay so
you have was the washing machine being
occupied no okay you know where I'm
going
nobody go do dishes and wash yeah so I
want you to come back in ten minutes
do what you can ten minutes okay can go
put in a load of laundry you have a
phone or something yeah just set a timer
okay and and go put in a load of laundry
and do as many dishes as you can okay
right so what are we doing right now
you're you're equipping that Club like
you made the mistake of like hitting the
the right direct d-pad button so you
swapped out the club for the fists and
then it's like we got a straight sword
yeah for the broken straight so are
there it is and that's not gonna work
cuz that's not gonna hurt the not enough
boys damage so go twitch at is waiting
okay I'm losing viewers as we speak okay
okay so so I know that twitch chat I
hear people saying god I need someone
like this in my life who motivates me to
do things so news flash to a chat you
can do something too so I want you guys
to think about the same thing right
we're gonna we're gonna do I want you
guys to close your eyes and think about
how you feel feel the energy in your
body or the lack thereof feel the
fatigue like focus on your lower back
and feel like the gel in your lower back
like feel the heaviness just close your
eyes and and just feel the way that you
feel right now
now get now open your eyes and look
around if you've already done yeah if
you don't understand what I'm saying
that's okay
look around at the things that you need
to do and we've got seven minutes but
what can you do in seven minutes if you
haven't if you've already done your
laundry fine is there anything that you
need to clean do you need to go through
your mail do you need to do anything you
have dishes to do you need to brush your
teeth okay so if you've got dishes go to
your dishes and then otherwise if you
guys don't have anything else to do I'm
gonna do one round of Surya Namaskar and
you guys can do it with me okay I want
you guys to follow along and up straight
front of you let your heels touch gather
and then arms up touch your biceps
secret here feel the stretch
and touch your toes but yours let your
head hang
let the weight of your body drag you
down
[Music]
okay but the weight of your body hang
down now put your palms by your feet
straight line and extend one knee back
so your two hands and one your left foot
should be aligned your other foot should
be back put the other foot back you're
gonna kind of be push-up position now
lay down on the ground put your forehead
chest and knees touching the ground
think you're brought up in here a little
bit now push up put your hips to the
ground push off you want hips on the
ground and you want your back bent
elbows bent is fine main goal is that
your hips and your toes should be
touching it out feel that stretch in
your back now we're gonna go into
downward dog
so put your heels try to keep your toes
and your heels on the ground touch back
a little bit but you're just meet the
level of your biceps
that right foot forward in line with
your two hands left foot back left foot
forward yourself hang arms up
close your eyes take a deep breath
alright yeah I I realize that that's
probably not the ideal way to do yoga
because you guys can't you know that's
gonna be tough but so I'm gonna had to
do this in the restroom so I could
dishwashing screen okay yeah so si
excess I like it that you can't touch
your toes be the change that you want to
see in the world I want to see a bunch
of inflexible gamers trying to touch
their toes not a bunch of flexible yoga
teachers actually touching their toes so
I have a question for you guys what do
you guys think how do you guys think
that bully Asst is gonna feel when he
comes back anyone have any idea okay
let's see alright so we'll see but he's
got about a minute or two and then um
well I mean I think his laundry's gonna
be in the washing machine for a while
longer yeah so what do you guys think
about that like what are we really doing
here like aren't we supposed to be
talking about his feelings I'm a
psychiatrist isn't that what we talk
about
doesn't he need therapy talking about
how he's depressed his parents are
divorced he feels alone
how does this work why am I doing this
and the other question is so how is it
that twitch chat so I'm just gonna read
out loud
exhausted much better lifted lighter
accomplished accomplished motivated
refreshed and slightly put proud anxious
at peace mini quest completed better
dishes aren't nagging him anymore
relieved to energized at beat the time
nice
okay so did you guys hear what he said
What did he say I said it Oh am I
supposed to say out all right what did
you say to beat the timer nice yeah I
didn't think I was gonna hear you say
the word nice and the way that you did
over the course of our session today
what does that make sense
Oh cuz uh what how did you what is what
is that nice what does that mean how's
that feels like a good feeling yeah how
do you feel right now better in what way
yeah feel like I accomplished something
did something that I needed to do
close your eyes okay how do you feel um
a little better yeah just kinda happy
excited okay how's your encumbrance a
little better but I still feel happy
yeah it's a bully aa think you have a
lot of work how do you man I think sorry
how do you feel about that
I don't know indifferent maybe mm-hmm
what happens to that feeling of slight
excitement as you start to think about
the problems ahead it's like oh [ __ ]
absolutely right that's the feeling all
right that's the feeling so now this is
the big revelation so like if we if I
wanted to sell you guys a false sense of
joy and hope I wouldn't have asked you
what do you think about the future we
would have stopped the stream with how
do you feel you say better and then I
say cure rise and walk you were cured my
friend I have fixed but that's not how
it works so now we're gonna wait back
into the ship and when you start
thinking about changing your life you
start to feel like this is insignificant
right right yeah so now we're gonna do
the real teaching okay okay which is
what is the difference between how you
felt sixty seconds ago and how you feel
now or actually not not what is the
difference so you understand you feel
different you felt good sixty seconds
ago now I'm making you feel worse again
right indifferent means that the evil
ogre that has been lurking in your mind
is starting to come out again and it's
like like you feel conflicted because
you feel hope and that Specter is still
there does that make sense I don't think
it's truly indifference I think it's
conflict right yeah okay okay so what so
let's just think about what the mind was
doing when you were feeling good and
what the mind was doing when you started
to feel bad was your your mind in the
past present or future when you were
feeling good present and when I asked
you what does this mean for you going
forward where is your mind future yeah
yeah and when you're critical about
yourself where is your mind pastor
beautiful okay so now I just want you to
appreciate that for a second
and now we're gonna do I want you to do
another experiment for us okay and then
we're gonna move to QA bulliest unless
you want to like talk about your parents
and stuff but my mom and I can talk more
about it I feel low that like the best
way to help you right now is to actually
have you do to notice this for a minute
so I'm gonna ask you to continue still
have more [ __ ] to clean yeah okay so
we're gonna we're gonna transition to
we're gonna transition to QA but I want
you to pay attention to something and I
want you to check back in with us in
about 15-20 minutes half an hour I want
you to do more work and then up and try
to notice where your mind is like as you
do more work like try to get a sense of
okay is my map mine in the past the
present or the future and then I want
you to come back on in about 15-20
minutes after we answer a few questions
and then we're gonna talk some more and
I want you to try to notice as you start
to feel bad where does your mind go okay
okay do you have thoughts about what the
punch line is or do you want to just
wait until we get to the like until you
actually do it well I'm sure the punch
line is future bad president good okay
so experiment right so this is what I
want you guys to do at home as well as
like understanding intellectually what
the punch line is is helpful but what
really needs to be done is an
experiential understanding in Sanskrit
there are two words for knowledge Vidya
and yawn Vidya means information Vidya
is transmissible in its objective Gian
is experiential personal and subjective
our society Matt which one do you think
our society values more probably the
the former yeah Vidhya right yeah
information and objective I completely
agree with you but if you want to change
your life Vidya doesn't do it
information does not change your life
experience changes your life so knowing
the punch line in feeling the punch line
or two different things right like
you're a smart guy and I bet I could
have asked to a chat about like you know
past present future but I just want you
to appreciate for a moment that when you
were living in the present you actually
started to feel better
you felt excitement twitch at was saying
that you looked happy okay like you were
smiling but that wasn't an anxious I'm
embarrassed because I'm [ __ ] talking
to the Internet smile that was like that
oh I actually did something today smile
those are two different things
and then just think about all of the
times that you're feeling bad where is
your mind somewhere else yeah so now go
and test it right so go and continue to
do work and check back with us in 15-20
minutes okay oh do some recycling huh
okay so like how long what are you doing
will be doing 15 minutes 20 minutes help
me understand what are we doing uh let's
try 15 I'm sure there's more stuff I
could do anyways okay 15 yeah plenty of
stuff I could do okay
so we'll check back with you in 15 okay
I'll set the timer and then I'll just
put music in or whatever okay okay so
Vidya and beyond good job dude go for it
buddy
I think we can talk about your feelings
when you get back awesome okay okay
we're gonna jump to Q&A for a little bit
all right so for
question
okay our dude is back so we're gonna
switch alright so I don't know how much
of our congressmen do you catch any of
our conversation I heard like uh
basically like the latter half of that
last thing about girls okay so the
question that we had was about like
should you focus on yourself or should
you ask girls out um but let's come back
to the present so tell me how you feel
Matt pretty okay what does that mean
like not a crappy just okay kind of okay
um observant or something like
unconscious beautiful right so this is
something that's actually really cool
that's happening
so now you've you've noticed that
there's a third way of operating it's
not good or bad but that there's
actually like there's perpendicular
movement on that axis like earlier we
were talking about feeling good or
feeling bad and now you've discovered
that there's a third layer like there's
like a layer up here does that make
sense yeah and you're just watching
yourself right and that that thing
doesn't feel good or bad right okay I'm
going to ask
you something do you feel peaceful yeah
I'd say peaceful is a good word for it
right so this is something that's really
important to understand peacefulness and
suffering is on a different axis from
emotion excitement happiness joy sadness
self-loathing all of those operate over
here and peacefulness and suffering are
up here okay do you do you it's sort of
like a neutral feeling right yeah like
you're watching yourself right yeah so
that's the first step to something
called vairagya or detachment there's
space you used to be all here and now a
piece of you has moved over here and
it's kind of like a weird neutral like
it doesn't feel bad it doesn't feel
joyous but it sort of feels good it's
kind of chill it's like peace how often
do you feel like that um
not often
I wouldn't think absolutely I think this
is a relatively new experience for most
people now the question is how did you
get there not sure yeah but so let's
just let's just understand what's
happening you're starting to feel a
little bit peaceful you don't know
exactly how it happened you're kind of
okay with it it's not excitement but how
would you would you be okay feeling this
way for eight hours a day yeah
yeah fair enough yeah I think so
probably ha yeah
what do you mean by it so when you when
you're hesitating is it because you want
to feel that way more or feel that way
less um I don't know I don't like
sitting in one emotion let's say like
okay I can it I guess yeah so I don't
think this is actually an emotional
state or for the record I think this is
separate that's what I was trying to
explain to you is that like pieces up
here but your emotions can actually be
bouncing around you can you can actually
cultivate the sense of peace while
you're feeling happy or while you're
feeling sad right and I know that that's
when you say right you understand she or
you're just logically I mean with me no
that makes sense
okay so please explain this to us what
do you mean by that how is that possible
what do you feel I know it's new to you
but like Justin stumble through the
words baby um like you kind of feel
things yeah like down here but like
there you're sort of more aware and like
thinking about how they affect you and
like I'm probably more logical playing I
guess okay I want you to pay attention
to what you said how they affect you
right there is a difference between your
negative emotions and you which until
this moment I'm not sure you appreciate
it because you used to be your negative
emotions does that make sense yeah but
now you're noticing that your negative
emotions are not actually who you are
they are over there and you were over
here I know it's kind of weird and
abstract but like I really got to know
if you're with me or if you're not with
me because it's only a Tamati sense make
sense right so how does it feel to be
separate from your negative emotions
like good yeah so if you heard of this
thing called enlightenment yeah I mean I
think once you've heard of it yeah so
what's your understanding of what the
[ __ ] does that even mean yeah that's
kind of
I'll give you so now Matt you've taken
the first step forward because
enlightenment is when all of your
emotions become fully separated from who
you are and that separation is permanent
so that the the small inkling of peace
that you have now becomes your default
state and encompasses your entire
awareness that's what enlightenment is
right so somehow somehow you've started
to cultivate a sense of detachment and
separation from your negative a negative
emotions and you don't know how you did
it so what what do you think happened
look at the [ __ ] like what did you do
I don't know I was just thinking about
random stuff and I was like listening to
music doing it okay so were you in the
past the present of the future I'd say
more so the present okay I was like
thinking about stuff that like yeah I
was like thinking about like this dream
and just like answers to questions and
random stuff oh no okay so your mind was
active but you were like kind of
reflecting yeah and maybe like
daydreaming a little okay your mind was
operating and you got some more work
done yeah I did like a lot of okay
groceries and stuff and how do you how
do you feel right now like peaceful yeah
okay so I'll take it
okay so what does this mean for you
going forward Matt have we cured you no
of course not of course not
it's a step in the right direction there
we go I'll take it
so now the question becomes what's the
next step I'm ready it's not rhetorical
actually asking oh not sure probably a
girl but I want to do with my life or
something oh that's not a step buddy
that's uh that's a man II know that's
like that's like that's like saying okay
like what's the next step and you're
saying like okay I'm gonna climb to the
top of Mount Everest figuring out what
you want to do in life is not a step
that's the goal that's like what you
reflect back on when you're 80 years old
on your deathbed that's when you figure
that out what's the next step
Matt how did you get to this peaceful
place doing stuff and thinking
absolutely doing stuff and thinking
that's the motto you're absolutely right
action and reflection that's a fancy
self-help meditation yoga hippie Whole
Foods magazine action and reflection but
really what it is is doing stuff and
thinking so what are you gonna do what
what is some stuff that you can do see
there's an easy answer this question
what needs to be done
right actually give me an answer
probably clean more or beautiful or what
I mean there's like plenty of things
that could be doing right so there's no
like one right answer absolutely
so just pick something so cleaning and
what else pick one more thing well I
wanted to like kind of figure out what I
want to do is streaming because I open
streaming but maybe edit videos or
something but I feel like that'd be it
later
because I want to figure out what I'm
gonna do with that first so okay so how
does one figure out what one wants to do
uh no clue okay
I'd start by talking to someone about
what so you want to figure out what you
want to do with streaming right yeah so
I defined a sounding board so like try
to find someone that you can talk to
about streaming right okay
like who can you talk to about streaming
like my friends or something yeah I mean
is that actually something you could do
yeah I mean I could do it yeah okay so
clean talk to your friends about
streaming and then what was the other
thing you said you said do things and
and what and think oh thank you okay so
what are you gonna reflect on uh not
sure okay
that's perfectly fine so I'm gonna tell
you what I want you to do so you did
something that was a little bit more
than thinking you did some noticing and
so if you want to cultivate that
peaceful sense within yourself it's not
about thinking it's about awareness or
noticing you paid attention to what you
were feeling and thinking you observed
it and do you see how paying attention
could pay paying attention does that
happen in the past the present or the
future president absolutely so I just
want you to pay attention pay attention
to your thoughts pay attention to your
physical sensations pay attention to
music whatever you were paying attention
to just think about like what were you
actually paying attention to where was
your attention focused over the last
fifteen minutes okay and as long as you
can notice and you can act and you can
clean then you're gonna start to feel
this way more and more and we can get
to as much psychological [ __ ] about
your parents and depression and all that
kind of stuff all that stuff has value
that's really what therapy is about
twitch is about changing which is about
changing your life therapy is about
feeling better so you have a therapist
right yeah
okay little counsellor I don't know it's
it's all yeah it's the same thing right
same difference okay any questions for
me uh not really no yeah good so I want
you to notice what was that was that a
fat roll or slow roll I'm sorry
slow roller pastoral that was a fast
roll right but just think about that
like you were making a statement about
your ignorance but it was actually a
fast roll you're like I strongest II or
yes yes my friend that's exactly what it
is how does it feel to be honest about
your ignorance good let's say yeah this
was pretty good see that's [ __ ] weird
shouldn't you be ashamed about showing
the internet how ignorant you are no you
should be but you're not so this is the
other thing that I want to explain to
all of you guys out there your negative
emotions have power over you as long as
they live in the darkness like what is
therapy how does therapy help people
you're talking about your negative [ __ ]
that you keep inside and we know that
that therapeutically helps people that's
what it does that's what it's for
increasingly enough Matt when you were
honest about the stuff that you suck at
in life you feel better right but when
you are not even honest and you judge
yourself and you talk about
hypotheticals and you talk about should
that's all inauthentic and that makes
you feel bad so be honest with yourself
and it's okay to sock
it's okay to be rejected it's okay to
fail it's okay to do all that stuff just
be honest with yourself and then cut
yourself a break right because like hey
what can you really expect when it comes
to good deer if you're like a [ __ ]
encumbered deprived with a club yeah not
gonna happen
Yeah right let's go cut yourself a break
and like acknowledge that you're gonna
need to grind for a little bit maybe
find yourself a decent weapon and like
some armor and a helmet and like a set
of gloves and then you can like you know
you can go back your life isn't over it
requires a little bit of grinding which
in this case is cleaning and talking to
your friends about streaming and
practicing like noticing and then you're
gonna like level up your meditation stat
and as your meditation stat goes up
you're gonna get no you're gonna get to
like you can get a mala which is like
you're a little um what's the thing this
the stick what are they called in Dark
Souls what let's stick like like no no
no not the torch the spell-casting items
catalyst catalyst that's for a talisman
though yeah yeah that's right that's
right
Oh talisman catalyst right it's like so
give yourself a little bit of time and
work at it and level up a little bit and
you can do it
mm-hmm I faith in you man thanks buddy
how does that how does it feel to hear
that um I don't know I whenever it
doesn't have an impact on me anymore I
feel like yeah I can tell you've never
said thanks buddy over the course of
this conversation like I couldn't just
say Oh sort of compliment snakes I don't
know react
there you go see that's inauthentic
thanks buddy is inauthentic I can smell
it from a [ __ ] mile away it's like
Jesus okay so if you don't know how to
accept a compliment that's a
conversation for a different day right
if you can't accept a compliment and you
can't accept that people have faith in
you it's because you don't see you don't
see worth in yourself you think I'm just
wrong
or you think I just don't get it anyway
conversation for a different way that
makes sense yeah yeah so we got to talk
about being unable to accept compliments
too I think that's important okay
but um thanks for coming on anyone have
questions for my Lord Ghoulia's oh no I
gets like a chest yeah the slow rolling
deprived
I think we're gonna do we're gonna do
okay so people are saying thank you yeah
so thank you bad I think I think you
talked about a lot of really important
stuff we appreciate that yeah I
appreciate well they appreciate you
helping me realize and having an impact
and stuff yeah I love it
see that's authentic I appreciate you
helping me realize and having an impact
and stuff that's where the magic happens
seriously man thank you so much for
coming on I think you know I really do
think you're gonna be okay you just got
to work at it right you got a level up a
little bit you got to understand that
like you can't take out pontiff with
your slow rolling stick like you gotta
be you got to get yourself some loot and
that takes time and cut yourself a break
because you know your stats like you
forgot to spend your life is the
equivalent of not spending any of your
stats at level one it doesn't mean that
you're just permanently worse it's just
you've got to look like you know you got
to just spend those points and you'll be
amazed at what you can accomplish right
yeah okay and then you know if you're if
you're what you know we let us know how
you're doing we can come back on and if
there's stuff are you gonna watch this
vaad I was thinking about saving it yeah
yeah so what watch the vaad and then if
you want to come back on in like a
couple of weeks and talk about something
else and give us an update on how you're
doing I think that'd be great okay okay
you want to set the note now so I don't
I don't forget about it look at the act
okay yeah let's do so you don't forget
about it so I don't know why on schedule
that's not forgetting about it's like a
yeah I understand what you mean put it
off happening right so you guys see this
this is important so Matt is realizing
he wants to make a change and Matt is
also recognizing that like there's a
part of him that unless he holds himself
accountable he's gonna like let himself
slip you guys see that you see that Matt
yeah you're kind of saying Now or Never
so let me ask you something Matt where
are you operating it right now my buddy
are you operating in the past the
present to the Future prison absolutely
right
even though you're scheduling something
in the future you're operating in the
present so we're gonna do the 20th 20th
okay okay yeah sure
your real better [ __ ] be clean by
that I'll try I'll try okay oh oh it'll
be in a better state I don't know if
they'll be house I clean but why not
wait and hold on because I mean tipic
guess what there's things in the way
like a I think it's someone to help me
with the IKEA furniture so I actually
have sorta put my clothes and other
things
mm do you not know anyone I I know like
some people but I mean like how do I
tell my like call so I'm like hey can
you help me build this IKEA furniture I
can't do it okay so if you need do you
have friends I do I just I don't know if
they would actually my um you yeah so
your furniture so how are you gonna find
out asking absolutely right so be like
hey man like I need some help building
some furniture can you give me a hand if
you need to help building furniture I
will help you as well or pizzas on me
right yeah good idea
okay and and try that and see what
happens okay okay sure there's no
there's no shame in failure there's only
shame in not trying
yeah yeah awesome so any place dark
clothes wouldn't be so scared of failure
but Here I am
there you go right so now
playing ball now now Matt's playing the
darksouls analogy game it's not just me
so this is good I'm happy to hear that
yeah okay good luck man
okay thanks buddy see ya oh those are
genuine thanks buddy I can tell I can
tell I know okay I'll watch the stream
now yeah you guys see how well Matt is
doing matt is being able to tell when
he's authentic or inauthentic like
already and you guys can tell the
difference too right
you can tell the difference between the
[ __ ] thanks buddy and this thanks
buddy this is actual appreciation he's
doing it this is great
strong work man I'll let you go now okay
okay